---
title: 'Changelog'
slug: 'changelog'
description: 'Milo is a "business operating system" for product-led, B2B companies.'
order: 1
---

# Changelog

Stay up to date with the latest features, improvements, and bug fixes in Milo
OS.

## Version v0.2.0 - User Deactivations and User Preferences

This version introduces the ability for platform administrators to deactivate
users and enable users to manage their profile preferences.

User deactivation will result in users access to the system being removed
immediately.

## Version v0.1.1 - Align Software Artifact Versioning

This bug fix resolves an issue with software artifacts not using the same
tagging conventions. All software artifacts are now tagged using Semantic
Versioning in the format `v{major}.{minor}.{patch}` (e.g. `v0.1.0`).

## Version v0.1.0 - Core Foundation

This release introduces a policy-driven control plane foundation for Milo that
can be extended through Custom Resources, Controllers, Webhooks, and Admission
Policies.

This release also includes the core APIs for Resource Management and Identity
and Access Management. These APIs can be used to manage users, organizations,
and their resources.

### Resource Management

The resource management service provides the ability to create **Organizations**
and **Projects**. The platform supports **Personal** or **Standard**
organizations to help categorize how organizations are used.

Users can create one or more projects within an organization to organize and
manage their resources. Projects provide dedicated control planes for users to
manage their resources on the platform.

Service providers can extend the platform by introducing new resources to
organizations or projects to customize Milo for their users.

### Identity and Access Management

The Identity and Access Management (IAM) system provides a robust framework for
managing access to all resources created in Milo. Users represent humans
authenticating with Milo and can be granted access to organizations.

The IAM system also supports inheriting access across the resource hierarchy so
that roles attached at the organization level will be inherited on projects. The
system also supports binding roles to the root of the platform to support
granting service providers the necessary access to manage their consumers.

Milo uses a flexible integration model for user authentication and authorization
so that any provider can be integrated. Milo officially supports [Zitadel for
authentication](https://github.com/datum-cloud/auth-provider-zitadel) and
[OpenFGA for
authorization](https://github.com/datum-cloud/auth-provider-openfga).

---
